[v8.0] feat: add documentation to setup pilots with tokens (#7176)
DIRACGrid/DIRAC: docs/source/AdministratorGuide/HowTo/pilotsWithTokens.rst

.. _pilotsWithTokens:

=====================================
Submitting pilots to CEs using tokens
=====================================

This guide outlines the process of setting up DIRAC to submit pilots using access tokens obtained via a `client_credentials` flow from a token provider.

Setting up an `IdProvider`
--------------------------

- Set up an OAuth2 client in the token provider and obtain a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.

    .. warning:: The client credentials obtained are confidential, store them in a secure place.
       Any malicious user able to get access to them would be able to generate access tokens on your behalf.
       To avoid any major issue, we recommend you to only grant essential privileges to the client (`compute` scopes).

> - Add the client credentials in your local `dirac.cfg` configuration such as::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the client credentials in your local `dirac.cfg` configuration such as:
```
(Maybe also too much indent for the next block?)

Please have a look at https://dirac--7176.org.readthedocs.build/en/7176/AdministratorGuide/HowTo/pilotsWithTokens.html

.. _pilots-with-tokens:

=====================================
Submitting pilots to CEs using tokens
=====================================

This guide outlines the process of setting up DIRAC to submit pilots using access tokens obtained via a `client_credentials` flow from a token provider.

Setting up an `IdProvider`
--------------------------

- Set up an OAuth2 client in the token provider and obtain a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.

    .. warning:: The client credentials obtained are confidential, store them in a secure place.
       Any malicious user able to get access to them would be able to generate access tokens on your behalf.
       To avoid any major issue, we recommend you to only grant essential privileges to the client (`compute` scopes).

> - Add the client credentials in your local `dirac.cfg` configuration such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the client credentials in the ``dirac.cfg`` of the relevant server configuration such as:
```
Right?

    .. code-block:: guess

      Resources
      {
        IdProviders
        {
          <IdProvider name>
          {
            client_id = <client_id>
            client_secret = <client_secret>
          }
        }
      }

- Then in your global configuration, add the following section to set up an `IdProvider` interface:

    .. code-block:: guess

      Resources
      {
        IdProviders
        {
          <IdProvider name>
          {
            issuer = <OIDC provider issuer URL>
          }
        }
      }

> - Connect the OIDC provider to a specific VO by adding `<IdProvider name>` in `/Registry/VO/<VO name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Connect the OIDC provider to a specific VO by adding the respective `<IdProvider name>` section under `/Registry/VO/<VO name>`.
```
If that is what is meant? Does it go under a `IdProviders` section as well?

Author: No, I expanded that part with an example to make it more clear.

Reviewer: Thanks, that is clear now.

.. note:: Get more details about the DIRAC configuration from the :ref:`Configuration <dirac-configuration>` section.

Launching the `TokenManagerHandler`
-----------------------------------

Run the following commands from a DIRAC client to install the `Framework/TokenManager` service:

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: console
```

    .. code-block:: guess

      Resources
      {
        IdProviders
        {
          <IdProvider name>
          {
            client_id = <client_id>
            client_secret = <client_secret>
          }
        }
      }

- Then in your global configuration, add the following section to set up an ``IdProvider`` interface:

    .. code-block:: guess

      Resources
      {
        IdProviders
        {
          <IdProvider name>
          {
            issuer = <OIDC provider issuer URL>
          }
        }
      }

- Finally, connect the OIDC provider to a specific VO by adding the following option:

  .. code-block:: guess

    Registry
    {
      VO
      {
        <VO name>
        {
          IdProvider = <IdProvider name>
        }
      }
    }

.. note:: Get more details about the DIRAC configuration from the :ref:`Configuration <dirac-configuration>` section.

Launching the ``TokenManagerHandler``
-------------------------------------

Run the following commands from a DIRAC client to install the ``Framework/TokenManager`` service:

.. code-block:: console

   $ dirac-proxy-init -g dirac_admin

>    $ dirac-admin-sysadmin-cli --host <dirac host>

Author: Add a comment: `The TokenManager runs with Tornado`
